# Exam Preparation

### What to expect:
- Which IdP providers are supported when using team synchronization? 
    - To implement team synchronization, the Idp provider will need to enable SAML SSO and SCIM.
    -  Currently it can be achieved by using Microsoft Entra ID and Okta.

- Where you can publish package when using GitHub Packages?
    - Packages can be published privately or publicly using GitHub Packages. Currently GitHub Packages are compatible with npm, nuget, RubyGems, Maven and Grandle. Depending on the package type, packages can be published into `ghcr.io` (Docker), `npm.pkg.github.com` (npm), or for example `nuget.pkg.github.com` (nuget).

- What does outside collaborator means?
    - External users in organization. For example Consultants, contractors, partners, vendors, or suppliers.
    - Basically a person who is not a member of your organization, but has access to one or more of your organization's repositories.

- What reporitory access level should be given to someone who manages issues and pull requests actively, but don't write any code? 
    - triage

- What are team permission levels (Choose two)?
    - member and maintainer

- What are organization permission levels (Choose three)? 
    - The whole list is Owner, member, moderator, billing manager, security manager, and outside collaborator.
    - However the question answer is: owner, member and billing manager

- What are Enterprise permission levels? Choose three
    - Owner, Member, Billing Manager

- Which role in Organisation should be assigned to at least 2 people? Owner, billing manager or member?
    - GitHub recommend that at least two people within each organization have the `owner` role

- You are administrator and you want to require all members in organization to use 2FA, how do you do it?
    - Organization administrators can require members to enable 2FA. Non-compliant accounts will lose access to repositories and will be removed from the organization. In this regard, it can be solved by communicating outside the GitHub through email notification.
    - To enforce 2FA, navigate to your Organization > Settings > Security > Authentication Security > Under "Two-factor authentication", select Require two-factor authentication for everyone in your organization, then click Save.

- What 2FA methods are available for GitHub?
    - `Security keys`, `TOTP` and `SMS`

- When you want to use SAML SSO?
    - When you want to verify user identity against a known identity provider.

- What happends if you enforce SAML SSO?
    - Unauthenticated members will be removed from Organization after SAML SSO enforcement.
    - GitHub won't remove members from Enterprise who haven't authenticated with the SAML IdP yet.

- How Administrator can deal with users after enforcing SAML SSO?
    - Organization owners can manually invite new members on GitHub or use the API.
    - For user provisioning without owner invitations, use the URL `https://github.com/orgs/ORGANIZATION/sso/sign_up`, replacing ORGANIZATION with your organization's name.
    - Configure this URL in your IdP, enabling users to join the GitHub organization directly from the IdP dashboard.

- Where to check usage limits?
    - `Your Enterprise` > `Settings` > `Billing`

- How do you use labels with self-hosted runners?
    - you give runner a label with following information: `self-hosted, {operative system}, {architecture}`, for example `self-hosted, linux, x64`
    - On top of these labels, user can also create `gpu` custom label and assign it to the runners that have the hardware installed.

- How do you deal with runner groups?
    - Administrator can create runner groups on: 
        - **Enterprise level:** `Enterprise account > Policies > Actions > Self-hosted runners > Add new > New group` 
        - **Organizational level:** `Organization > Settings > Actions > Self-hosted runners > Add new > New group`
    - When new runners are created, they are automatically assigned to the default group within the enterprise or organization
    - Runners can only be in one group at a time, however, both Enterprise Cloud and Enterprise Server give you the possibility to move runners from the default group to another group

- How to use encrypted secrets in Workflow syntax?
    ```yaml
    steps:
      - name: Hello world action
        with: 
          super_secret: ${{ secrets.SuperSecret }}
        env: 
          super_secret: ${{ secrets.SuperSecret }}
    ```

- Using encrypted secrets in a actions syntax?
    ```yaml
    inputs:
      super_secret:
        description: 'My secret token'
        required: true
    ```

- What applies to the deploy keys?
    - read-only by default; access to a single repository

- The question about diagnostics of self-hosted runner:
    - Answer: Check the status of the runner in the GitHub Actions; review the `Worker_` files in `_diag`; Review the `Runner_` files in the `_diag` folder
        - Enable runner diagnostics logging by setting up the `ACTIONS_RUNNER_DEBUG` secret in the repository that contains the workflow to `true`
        - Enable step diagnostics logging setting the `ACTIONS_STEP_DEBUG` secret in the repository that contains the workflow to `true`
        - Check the status of the runner in GitHub Actions settings of the organisation, repository or entreprise where self-hosted runner is registered
            - Review the activities and automatic updates of the runner in the `Runner_` files in the `_diag` folder
            - Review the status of the jobs runner executed in the `Worker_` files in the `_diag` folder  
            - Additionally, depending on the operation system of the runner, users can also review:
                - `MacOS`: self-hosted runner application service using `launchd`
                - `Windows`: self-hosted runner application service using `PowerShell`
                - `Linux`:  self-hosted runner application service using `journalctl` or if jobs require containers, confirm that Docker is configured correctly, installed and running using `systemctl`

- What is GitHub Releases?
    - GitHub Releases are used to release a bundle of packaged software, along with the release notes and links to binary files. It is basically a wrap of repository files in tarball or zip format. Releases can be directly downloaded from their unique URL and tracked back to specific commit they were created from.

- How you publish Packages?
    - you can publish package by using workflow, or
    - create PAT > Authenticate to GitHub Packages > Publish package

- How to download the support bundle on GHES instance? 
    - ssh-p  122  admin@HOSTNAME  --  `the-support-bundle  -o` > support-bundle.tgz


- Where can you check rate limit quotas? 
    - REST API call. `GET /rate_limit endpoint`

- Who have access to internal repositories by default? 
    - All enterprise members with read permissions

- What visibility of repositories should you choose for innersource? 
    - internal

- What access does a restricted Github Token (GITHUB_TOKEN) have to packages? 
    - None

- In what file formats can you export Audit logs? 
    - JSON and CSV

- What three things are required to enable Team Synchronisation in Azure AD? 
    - Read all user's full profiles, Sign in and Read user profiles and Read directory data

- Which things to pass in a scripted API call to change the visibility of all repos in an organization?
    - Choices: repo, owner, enterprise and privacy. 
    - Correct choices are: `Repo, owner and visibility`

- Documentation and security settings have three purposes. What are they?
    - Standardization for consistent responses, compliance with industry-standard practices, and prevention of critical failure by defending against security breaches.


- Many questions about where certain policies are in settings in enterprise/organization/repo level, whether clicking those policies allows or disallows them, what is the wording of them and what consequences come from setting them up.
    - TBD

- When to contact Github premium support? Licence renewal?
    - When the matter is about account, security, and abuse issues

- When to use self-hosting runners?
    - When you need to run the code on your own hardware

- What is the fast way to save package each time the codebase is changed? 
    - use the workflow from the marketplace for the npm packages. (?)

- How to clean up the unwanted file from repo, 3 steps? 
    - Delete local, force push, contact support (?)

- What GH product can be self-hosted?
    - GitHub Enterprise Server

- Which services are available by default on GH server?
    - Most of the services that are available on GHEC. However these services requires user own infrastructure to run them.
    - Codespaces are not available on GHES.
