# Deploying to Microsoft Azure using GitHub Actions

The GitHub Marketplace has several actions that help to automate Azure-related tasks. To find needed Action:

1. Inside repository, browse to the workflow file that needs to be edited.
2. Click the Edit icon in the upper right corner of the file view.
3. Use the GitHub Marketplace sidebar to the right of the editor to browse Actions.

For example these actions will help to deploy a container-based web app to Azure Web Apps:

-   `azure/webapps-container-deploy@v1`
-   `azure/login@v1`
-   `azure/docker-login@v1`

For example job that adds these actions to the `Deploy-to-Azure` would look like:
```yml
Deploy-to-Azure:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    needs: Build-Docker-Image
    name: Deploy app container to Azure
    steps:
      - name: "Login via Azure CLI"
        uses: azure/login@v1
        with:
          creds: ${{ secrets.AZURE_CREDENTIALS }}

      - uses: azure/docker-login@v1
        with:
          login-server: ${{env.IMAGE_REGISTRY_URL}}
          username: ${{ github.actor }}
          password: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}

      - name: Deploy web app container
        uses: azure/webapps-container-deploy@v1
        with:
          app-name: ${{env.AZURE_WEBAPP_NAME}}
          images: ${{env.IMAGE_REGISTRY_URL}}/${{ github.repository }}/${{env.DOCKER_IMAGE_NAME}}:${{ github.sha }}

      - name: Azure logout
        run: |
          az logout
```

- `needs` attribute in the `Deploy-to-Azure` action refers to the `Build-Docker-Image` job, which means that this action depends on the successful completion of the Build-Docker-Image job. It does not automatically pass the built image as an artifact.

- `runs-on` attribute specifies a new instance (in this case, `ubuntu-latest`) for this job to run on, which means that the `Docker` image built in the previous job may not be available in the new instance.

- In order to make the image available to this job, it is essential to either use a `registry` to store the image or pass it as an `artifact` between jobs.

- The `azure/docker-login` action is being used to authenticate with the container registry and make the image available for deployment in the `azure/webapps-container-deploy` action that follows.

- In this particular case the image is probably being pushed to a container registry and then pulled in the `Deploy-to-Azure` job using the `azure/webapps-container-deploy` action. This one is catchy, because it doesn’t show any `pull` or `push` related syntax. After successful authentication, this action `pulls` an image and when `pushes` to the specified container registry.  

- The login-server attribute is set to `${{env.IMAGE_REGISTRY_URL}}`, which should refer to the URL of the container registry that was used to store the image.

- It is not necessary to pass the image as an `artifact` from the `Build-Docker-Image` job to the `Deploy-to-Azure` job, as long as the image is pushed to a registry and can be pulled from there in the `Deploy-to-Azure` job.

- Inside `azure/webapps-container-deploy` action:
    -   images: ```bash ${{env.IMAGE_REGISTRY_URL}}/${{ github.repository }}/${{env.DOCKER_IMAGE_NAME}}:${{ github.sha }}```

- The `azure/webapps-container-deploy` action is used to deploy a container image to an Azure Web App, and it does this by pulling the image from a container registry specified in the images parameter.