# Usage limits

There are usage limits for GitHub Actions workflows. Usage charges apply to repositories that go beyond the amount of free minutes and storage for repository. GitHub Actions usage is free for standard `GitHub-hosted` runners in `public` repositories, and for `self-hosted` runners. For `private` repositories, each GitHub account receives a certain amount of free minutes and storage for use with `GitHub-hosted` runners, depending on the product used with the account. Any usage beyond the included amounts is controlled by spending limits.


## Limits
- GitHub Actions is available on all GitHub products, but GitHub Actions is not available for private repositories owned by accounts using legacy per-repository plans.


### Limits for GitHub Actions usage
- `Job execution time` is limited to 6 hours of execution time. If job reaches the limit, the job will be terminated and fail to complete.
- `Worfklow run time` is limitied to 35 days. If a worfklow run reaches the limit, the workflow run will be cancelled. This period includes exection duration, and time spent on waiting and approval.
- `API requests` are limited to 1,000 requests to the GitHub API in an hour across all actions within a repository. If requests are exceeded, additional API calls will fail which might cause jobs to fail.
- `Concurrent jobs` limitation depends on the GitHub plan as well as the type of runner used. If exceeded, any additional jobs are queued. 


#### Standard GitHub-hosted runners
| GitHub plan | Total concurrent jobs | Maximum concurrent MocOs jobs |
| ----------- | --------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| Free | 20 | 5 |
| Pro | 40 | 5 |
| Team | 60 | 5 |
| Enterprise | 180 | 50 |

#### Lage GitHus-hosted runners
| GitHub plan | Total concurrent jobs | Maximum concurrent MocOs jobs |
| ----------- | --------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| All | 500 | n/a |

- `Job matrix` can generate a maximus of 256 jobs per workflow run. This limit applies to both GitHub-hosted and self-hosted runners.
- `Workflow run queue` is limited to 500 workflow runs in a 10 second interval per repository. If a workflow run reaches the limit, the workflow run will be terminated and fail to complete.


### Billing for reusable workflows
In case of a workflow reusing, billing is always associated with the caller workflow. Assignment of GitHub-hosted runners is always evaluated using only the caller's context. The caller cannot use GitHub-hosted runners from the called repository.

### Artifact and log retention policy
- Artifact and log retention period can ba configured in the repoistory, organization or enterprise accounts. 
- By default the artifacts and log files generated by workflows are retained for 90 days before they are automatically deleted. Depending on the type of repository, retention period can be changed:
    - for `public` it can be anywhere between 1 to 90 days.
    - for `private` it can be anywhere between 1 to 400 days.

New customization only applies to new artifacts and log files, and does not retroactively apply to existing objects. For managed repositories and organizations the maximum retention period cannot exceed the limit set by managing organization or enterprise.


### Disabling or limiting GitHub Actions
By default, GitHub Actions are enabled on all repositories and organizations. GitHub Actions configuration can be disabled or limited to actions and reusable workflows in an organization.

### Disabling and enabling workflows
GitHub allows to disable or enable individual workflows in repository on GitHub. To prevent unnecessary workflow runs, scheduled workflows can be disabled automatically. In a public repository, scheduled workflows are automatically disabled when no repository activity has occured in 60 days.


### Limits for configuration variables
You can store up to 1,000 organization variables, 100 repository variables, and 100 environment variables.

A workflow created in a repository can access the following number of variables:

All 100 repository variables.
If the repository is assigned access to more than 100 organization variables, the workflow can only use the first 100 organization variables (sorted alphabetically by variable name).
All 100 environment variables.
Variables are limited to 48 KB in size.