1. Define GitHub Advanced Security
    - GHAS is a licence-based service that provides a set of tools and features to help identify security vulnerabilities in codebase and environment.
    - GHAS focuses on protecting three areas: supply chain, code, and environments.
    - Some GHAS features are not accessible from the user interface, they work behind the scenes to improve performance of platform, such as:
        - CodeQL
        - Third-part tool integration
    - It provides a features, such as:
        - Code scanning
        - Secret scanning and additional security layers: push protection rules, environment secrets and wait timers
        - Dependency graph
        - Dependabot and Dependency alerts
        - GHAD (GitHub Advisory Database)
        - Security overview
        - Code analysis


2. Identify the purpose of specific GitHub Advanced Security features
    - `GHAS`: Stay ahead of security threats and breaches, leverage the expertise of the security community and continue to use open-source software securely.
    - `Code scanning`: Identify security vulnerabilities in your codebase. Static analysis of every git push. Catch errors before they reach production.
    - `Secret scanning`: Prevent the fraudulent use of secrets that were committed accidentally.
    - `Dependency graph`: Visualize and summarize dependency data of your codebase.
    - `Dependabot`: Automate dependency updates. Detect vulnerable dependencies fast.
    - `Dependency alerts`: Get notified about vulnerable dependencies.
    - `CodeQL`: Engine behind code scanning that treats code like data.
    - `Third party tool integration`: You can integrate option third-party analysis tools that output `SARIF` data.


3. Understand the value of a security-focused team cultrue
    - Adopt security mindset
    - Shift left
        - SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), shifting left means adoption security practices early. Everyone considers security when they contribute to the code. 
        - By integrating security into the design phase, it makes it easier to write secure code and policies.
    - To achieve an ideal security model, teams should prioritize every security facet:
        - `Scope of team involvement`: Teams shifting left. Each role from design to deployment is concerned with security.
        - `Prioritization`: Throughout all stages of development, measures are in place to protect assets
        - `Documentaiton`: Standards and guidelines are in writing. Teams know the process to report bugs.
        - `Tooling`: The development platform enforces standards and keeps code and environments secure.



4. Highlight the roles involved in securing workflow
    - GitHub store security policies in repository in the `SECURITY.md` file. The file also includes instructions on reporting any bugs or vulnerabilities found in the project.
    - GHAS includes compliance and policy-management features. 
    - Use policies to stipulate standards and procedures that keep your code healthy. 
    - Policies also identify who to contact when an error is found.
    - Example of policies:
        - code scanning must pass before merging changes
        - reviewer should approve a pull request before reviewers release it for merging


5. Recognize best practices for identifying and responding to security vulnerabilities
    - `Evaluate security alerts`: Reduce costs, retain customers, and protect your brand reputation when you avoid sensitive data leaks by quickly responding to security alerts.
    - `Triage security alerts`: Dismiss alert if it is false positive or interact with scanning alerts using pull requests. 
    - `Manage security alerts`: Manage security alerts in your repository by prioritizing and resolving them. Use suggested fixes to have the direction to fix the issue.
    - `Use security advisories`: Use security advisories to securely communicate about security vulnerabilities in your project.


