1. Describe the available tools for managing vulnerable dependencies on GitHub
    - `Dependency graph`:
        - Summary of a repository's manifest and lock files. 
        - Contains metadata about the project
        - Is automatically generated for public repositories and includes the following information:
            - Dependencies, which are the ecosystem and packages the repository depends on.
            - Dependents, which are the repositories and packages that depend on the repository.
        - It provides information about:
            - The direct dependencies explicitly defined in a manifest or lock file.
            - The indirect dependencies, also known as transitive dependencies or subdependencies, which are dependencies used by packages that are dependencies of your project.
            - The vendored dependencies that are checked into a specific directory in your repository but aren't referenced in your manifest file (only available for some package managers).
    - `The GitHub Advisory Database`:
        - Collects information on vulnerabilities and includes it in the GitHub Advisory Database.
        - A curated list of security vulnerabilities related to packages tracked by GitHub dependency graph.
        - Contains detailed information about each dependency including description, severity, and addicted package.
        - Uses Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS). Section 5, to assign a severity level to each vulnerability:; low, medium/moderate, high, critical.
        - Database populates from:
            - The National Vulnerability Database.
            - A combination of machine learning and human reviews to detect vulnerabilities in public commits on GitHub.
            - Security advisories reported on GitHub.
            - The npm Security advisories database.
    - `Dependabot`:
        - GitHub tool that automates managing your repository’s dependencies.
        - Requires enabled dependency graph.
        - Alerts after a new vulnerability added to GHAD or dependency graph for repository chagnes.
        - Uses the dependency graph and the GitHub Advisory Database to provide three features:
            - Dependabot alerts
            - Security updates
            - Version updates

2. Enable and configure Dependabot alerts
    - Enabled by default for public repositories. 
    - Can be enabled in `Settings` under `Security` left-side menu for private repositories.
    - By default only repository owners and administrators are able to receive and dismiss alerts. Administrators and owners can grant other teams and users with access to the repository, permissions to view and dismiss alerts by selcting `Code securtiy and analysis` tab and in the `Access to alerts` section type the name of the person or team you want to grant access to. By making selection and saving changes permissions are granted.

3. Identify the permissions and roles required to view and enable Dependabot alerts.
    - Repository administrators and owners can set up Dependabot alerts for private repositories and for some GHES repositories. Enabling these features grants GitHub permission to perform read-only analysis of those specific repositories.


4. Enable and configure Dependabot security updates.
    - Dependabot security updates helps to fix the vulnerabilities identified by Dependabot alerts.
    - This can be enabled in `Settings` -> `Code security and analysis` tab. This will enable a manual security updates. 
    - Once enabled, Dependabot will create pull requests to help you keep dependencies secure and up-to-date.
    - For private repositories, user should create a `dependabot.yml` file in the `.github` directory of the repository. This file will contain the configuration for Dependabot security updates. 
    - The `dependabot.yml` should include:
        - The `version` of the configuration file. Should be set to `2`.
        - The `updates` which contains authentication details. This is optional if you have dependencies in a private registry.
        - The `registris` which include an entry for each dependency you want Dependabot to monitor.
    - For each package manager, include:
        - `package-ecosystem`: Specifies the package manager.
        - `directory`: Specifies the location of the manifest or other definition files.
        - `schedule.interval`: Specifies how often to check for new versions.

    - An example of `dependabot.yml` file:
        ```yml
        # Basic dependabot.yml file with
        # minimum configuration for two package managers

        version: 2
        updates:
          # Enable version updates for npm
          - package-ecosystem: "npm"
            # Look for `package.json` and `lock` files in the `root` directory
            directory: "/"
            # Check the npm registry for updates every day (weekdays)
            schedule:
              interval: "daily"

          # Enable version updates for Docker
          - package-ecosystem: "docker"
            # Look for a `Dockerfile` in the `root` directory
            directory: "/"
            # Check for updates once a week
            schedule:
              interval: "weekly"
        ```

5. Explain how to configure notifications for vulnerable dependencies. 
    - Notifications can be reviewed in `Security` tab
    - GitHub notifies: owners and users with admin permissions by default.
    - To reveive the notifications, admins must be watching the repository, have enabled notifications for security alerts or all activity on the repository, and must not be ignoring the repository.
    - GitHub never publicly shares vulnerability information for any repository. Information is only available to repository onwers, people with admin permissions, and users who have been granted the appropriate access.
    - By default, users reveive notifications in the following manner:
        - By email
        - In the GitHub UI
        - On the command line
        - In inbox, as web notifications
        - On GitHub for mobile, as web notifications
    - Users are also able to sync web and mobile notifications so that taking action on notification in one inbox will automatically change its status in the other. 
    - notifications are customizable in `Settings` -> `Notifications` tab. For example, users can turn off notifications from Dependabot and instead choose to receive the weekly security digest.

    - Users are also able to triage notifications. To use the inbox, you must enable web and mobile notifications by selection `Web and mobile` notifications from the `Watching` section in `Manage notifications` > `Notification settings`. 
    - The following options are available:
        - Triage multiple notification at once
        - Mark completed notifications as 'Done' and remove them from your inbox. To view all of your notifications marked as 'Done', use the is:done query.
        - Save a notification to review later. Saved notifications are flagged in your inbox and kept indefinitely. To view all of your saved notifications, use the is:saved query.
        - Unsubscribe and remove a notification from your inbox.
        - Preview the issue, pull request, or team discussion where the notification originates from on GitHub.com from within the notifications inbox.
        - See one of the latest reasons you're receiving a notification from your inbox with a reasons label.
        - Create custom filters to focus on different notifications when you want.
        - Group notifications in your inbox by repository or date to get a quick overview with less context switching.


6. Explain how to use GraphQL API to retrieve vulnerability information.
    - Users are able to use GraphQL API to retrieve and export Dependabot alert information.
    - GraphQL API enables you to export a list of your dependencies that can be saved as a CSV and then imported into a Business Intelligence tool for analysis.
    - Requires a OAuth token with the following scopes to communicate with the GraphQL server:
        - `user`
        - `public_repo`
        - `repo`
        - `repo_deployment`
        - `repo:status`
        - `read:repo_hook`
        - `read:org`
        - `read:public_key`
        - `read:gpg_key`
    - GraphQL has a single endpoint, that doesn't change: `https://api.github.com/graphql`
    
    - GraphQL Explorer is the recommended tool for communicating with the GraphQL API.
    - It is a graphical interactive in-browser GraphQL IDE tool. The Explorer is an instance of GraphiQL. 
    - GraphQL queries return only the data you specify. The structure is:
        ```graphql
        query {
          JSON objects to return
        }
        ```