1. Describe secret scanning
    - Secret scanning is a GHAS feature that scans repositories for known types of secrets. It prevents the fraudulent use of secrets that were committed accidentally.
    - GitHub also notifies the service provider who issued the secret.
    - It automatically scans entire Git history on all branches present in GitHub repository for any secrets. 
    - If found - sends notification to all repository administrators about the commit that contains the secret.
    - This feature is available for all public repositories and cannot be configured or turned off, for private repos it requires an enabled GHAS plan and must be enabled manually.
    
2. Configure secret scanning
    - For private repos, secret scanning has a few configurable parameters:
        - excluding files from being scanned
        - configurable notification recipients
    - To exclude files from being scanned, create `.github/secret_scanning.yml` file in the repository. To exclude files, use `paths-ignore` syntax:
        ```yml
        paths-ignore:
        - "foo/bar/*.js"
        ```
        - If there are more than 1000 entries in `path-ignore`, secret scanning will only exclude the first 1000 from scans.
        - If `secret-scanning.yml` is larger than `1 MB`, secret scanning will ignore the entire file.
        - Users can also use special characters, such as `*` to filter paths.
    - GitHub notifies the following users of secret scanning alerts on a repository:
        - Repository admins
        - Organization owners
        - Authors of commits that trigger alerts
    - To configure recipients of secret scanning alerts, go to `Settings` > `Security & analysis` > add recipients into `Search for people or teams` field > click `Save`.


3. Use secret scanning
    - Respond to alert:
        - For a compromised GitHub personal access token, delete the compromised token, create a new token, and update any services that use the old token.
        - For all other secrets, first verify that the secret committed to GitHub is valid. If so, create a new secret, update any services that use the old secret, and then delete the old secret.
    - Create a custom pattern:
        - You can define up to 500 custom patterns for each organization or enterprise account, and up to 100 custom patterns per private repository.
        - After pattern created, secret scanning will scan for the custom secret in private repositories in your organization.