1. Create a database by using CodeQL to extract a single relational representation of each source file in the codebase
    - Download the ZIP archive of the CodeQL CLI, this can be:
        - `codeql-PLATFORM.zip` with the specific platform (OS)
        - `codeql.zip` with contains all of the platforms CodeQL supports
    - Create a new CodeQL directory:
        - `$HOME/codeql-home`
    - Obtain a local copy of the CodeQL queries:
        - clone a copy of the repository into CodeQL directory `codeql-home`
        - the root of the cloned repository will be called `codeql` by default
        - After cloning, rename the folder `codeql-repo`, so that it wouldn't conflict with the CodeQL CLI
    - Extract the zip archive:
        - If you are using Windows, Linux or macOS, you can extract the archive into the `$HOME/codeql-home` directory
        - example: `$HOME/codeql-home/codeql-repo`
    - Launch `codeql`:
        - Execute `<extraction-root>/codeql/codeql`, where `<extraction-root>` is the folder where CodeQL CLI package been extracted
        - add `<extraction-root>/codeql` to your `PATH` to execute just using `codeql` command
    
    - CodeQl CLI commands:
        - `codeql resolve languages`: list the languages that are available for database creation
        - `codeql resolve qlpacks`: show which QL packs the CLI can find
            - Packs includes: `codeql-cpp`, `codeql-csharp`, `codeql-go`, `codeql-java`, `codeql-javascript`, and `codeql-python`
    - To create database, use: `codeql database create <database> --language=<language-identifier>`
        - `<database>`: path to the new database to be created
        - `--language`: the identifier for the language used to create the database
    - You can also create a new directory that include the CLI and any queries        
    - You are able to use extractors:
        - `codeql resolve extractor --format=betterjson`
        - To find which options are availabe for language, use `codeql resolve languages --format=betterjson` or `codeql resolve extractor --format=betterjson`. This gives the extractor's root and other language specific options.
    - CodeQL database provides:
        - full, hierarchical representation of the code
        - represintation of the abstract syntax tree
        - the data flow graph
        - the control flow graph
    - Database schema includes:
        - `expressions` table, which contains a row for every expression in the source code that was analyzed during the build process
        - `statements` table, which contains a row for every statement in the source code that was analyzed during the build process
    - CodeQL library defines classes to provide a layer of abstraction over the each of these tables. This includes the related auxuliary tables `Expr` and `Stmt`.
        


2. Run CodeQL in a database to find problems in your source code and find potential security vulnerabilities
    - After creating a database, you can make queries. There are two types of queries:
        - `Alert queries`: highlight issues in specific location of the code
        - `Path queries`: describe the flow of information between a source and a sink in the code
    - Writing simple query:
        - Basic query structure has the file extension `.ql` and contains a `select` clause
        - An example of structure:
        ```ql
        /**
         *
         * Query metadata
         *
         */
        import /* ... CodeQL libraries or modules ... */
        /* ... Optional, define CodeQL classes and predicates ... */
        from /* ... variable declarations ... /
        where / ... logical formula ... /
        select / ... expressions ... */
        ```

3. Troubleshoot CodeQL results:
    - You need to optimize CodeQL, if CodeQL taking too long to complete:
        - If you use self-hosted runners for CodeQL analysis, you can increase the memory or the number of cores.
        - The analysis of each language runs in parallel with the default CodeQL analysis workflow in order to build a matrix of languages. You can modify your workflow to use a matrix that speeds up the analysis of multiple languages.
        - The amount of code being analyzed may cause long runtimes. Analysis time is typically proportional to the amount of code being analyzed. You can reduce the size of the code by excluding test code or breaking the code into multiple workflows to only analyze a subset with each scan.
        - You may want to only trigger analysis on the schedule event if your analysis is too slow while running during `push` or `pull_request` events.
    - Analysis is failing? Check following:
        - If Dependabot authored the commit
        - If the pull request that includes the commit has been merged using `@dependabot squash and merge`
        - To solve it, enable auto-merge for your repository
    - Best practices:
        - Eliminate cartesian products
        - Use specific types
        - Determine the nist soecufuc types of a variable
        - Avoid comple recursion
        - Fold predicates:
            - linear, prevents too much branching
            - tightly bount, the chunks join with each other on as many variables as possible
        - Debug data-flow queries using partial flow
        - Debug artifacts
        - Troubleshoot CodeQL for VS Code
    - Common error messages:
        - `Server error`: Try running the workflow again if the run of a workflow for code scanning fails due to a server error.
        - `Out of disk` or `out of memory`: Contact GitHub Support so that they can investigate this type of issue on a hosted GitHub Actions runner.
        - `403 Resource not accessible by integration`: Use `pull_request` event instead of `push` event.
        - `git checkout HEAD^2 is no longer necessary`: use `github/checkout` action instead of using `git checkout HEAD^2` in your workflow.
    - Important to keep in mind:
        - CodeQL predicates and classes are evaluated to database tables.
        - Large predicates generate large tables with many rows, and are therefore expensive to compute
        - The QL language is implemented using standard database operations and relational algebra, such as join, projection, and union.
        - Queries are evaluated bottom-up, which means that a predicate is not evaluated until all of the predicates that it depends on are evaluated.
