1. Create a database by using CodeQL to extract a single relational representation of each source file in the codebase
    - Download the ZIP archive of the CodeQL CLI, this can be:
        - `codeql-PLATFORM.zip` with the specific platform (OS)
        - `codeql.zip` with contains all of the platforms CodeQL supports
    - Create a new CodeQL directory:
        - `$HOME/codeql-home`
    - Obtain a local copy of the CodeQL queries:
        - clone a copy of the repository into CodeQL directory `codeql-home`
        - the root of the cloned repository will be called `codeql` by default
        - After cloning, rename the folder `codeql-repo`, so that it wouldn't conflict with the CodeQL CLI
    - Extract the zip archive:
        - If you are using Windows, Linux or macOS, you can extract the archive into the `$HOME/codeql-home` directory
        - example: `$HOME/codeql-home/codeql-repo`
    - Launc `codeql`:
        - Execute `<extraction-root>/codeql/codeql`, where `<extraction-root>` is the folder where CodeQL CLI package been extracted
        - add `<extraction-root>/codeql` to your `PATH` to execute just using `codeql` command
    
    - CodeQl CLI commands:
        - `codeql resolve languages`: list the languages that are available for database creation
        - `codeql resolve qlpacks`: show wchich QL packs the CLI can find
            - Packs includes: `codeql-cpp`, `codeql-csharp`, `codeql-go`, `codeql-java`, `codeql-javascript`, and `codeql-python`
    - To create database, use: `codeql database create <database> --language=<language-identifier>`
        - `<database>`: path to the new database to be created
        - `--language`: the identifier for the language used to create the database
    - You can also create a new directory that include the CLI and any queries        
    - You are able to use extractors:
        - `codeql resolve extractor --format=betterjson`
        - To find which options are availabe for language, use `codeql resolve languages --format=betterjson` or `codeql resolve extractor --format=betterjson`. This gives the extractor's root and other language specific options.
    - CodeQL database provides:
        - full, hierarchical representation of the code
        - represintation of the abstract syntax tree
        - the data flow graph
        - the control flow graph
    - Database schema includes:
        - `expressions` table, which contains a row for every expression in the source code that was analyzed during the build process
        - `statements` table, which contains a row for every statement in the source code that was analyzed during the build process
    - CodeQL library defines classes to provide a layer of abstraction over the each of these tables. This includes the related auxuliary tables `Expr` and `Stmt`.
        


2. Run CodeQL in a database to find problems in your source code and find potential security vulnerabilities
    - After creating a database, you can make queries. There are two types of queries:
        - `Alert queries`: highlight issues in specific location of the code
        - `Path queries`: describe the flow of information between a source and a sink in the code
    - Writing simple query:
        - Basic query structure has the file extension `.ql` and contains a `select` clause
        - An example of structure:
        ```ql
        /**
         *
         * Query metadata
         *
         */
        import /* ... CodeQL libraries or modules ... */
        /* ... Optional, define CodeQL classes and predicates ... */
        from /* ... variable declarations ... /
        where / ... logical formula ... /
        select / ... expressions ... */
        ```

### Q & A:




11. `codeql database analyze --format=<format> ---output=<output> [--threads=<num>] [--ram=<MB>] <options>... -- <database> <query|dir|suite>...`

13. important:
    - A QL pack must contain a file called `qlpack.yml` in its root directory.
    - query library: `.qll` files
    - query: `.ql` files
    - query suite: `.qls` files
    
    ```yml
    name: codeql/java-queries
    version: 0.0.6-dev
    groups: java
    suites: codeql-suites
    extractor: java
    defaultSuiteFile: codeql-suites/java-code-scanning.qls
    dependencies:
        codeql/java-all: "*"
        codeql/suite-helpers: "*"
    ```



15. CodeQL analysis consists of three steps:

    - Preparing the code, by creating a CodeQL database.
    - Running CodeQL queries against the database.
    - Interpreting the query results.

14. how to write `.qls`?
