1. Understand what GitHub Advanced Security is and how to leverage it in the software development lifecycle.
    - By shifting left you leveraging Security in project during whole development lifecycle.
    - You are able to use `security policies` during the project configuration. `code scanning`, `secret scanning` and `dependency review` during the Code Review phase, and `code scanning` during the CI/testing phase.
    - This makes the quality assurance phase easier, because the code has already been reviewed multiple times.


2. Identify which GitHub Advanced Security features are available for open-source projects and which are available on enterprise products.
    - All of the features are available with Advanced security license for both public and private repositories without any limitations.
    - `Code scanning`: Automatically detect common vulnerabilities and coding errors. Available for public repositories. Unavailable for private repositories.
    - `Secret scanning`: Receive alerts when secrets or keys are checked in, exclude files from scanning, and define up to 100 custom patterns. Available for public repositories woth limited functionality only. Unavailable for private repositories.
    - `Dependency review`: Show the full impact of changes to dependencies and see details of any vulnerable versions before you merge a pull request. Available for public repositories. Unavailable for private repositories.
    - `Security overview`: Review the security configuration and alerts for an organization and identify the repositories at greatest risk. Unavailable for public and private repositories. 

3. Enable the different features of GitHub Advanced Security on different enterprise products.
    - Enabling `GHAS` for `GHEC`:
        1. `Settings` > `Code security and analysis`
        2. `Configure security and analysis features` > `Enable all` next to `GitHub Advanced Security`
        3. Review the impact and click `Enable all`
        4. To automatically enable `GHAS` on new private and internal repositories, select `Automatically enable for new private and internal repositories` checkbox
    - Enabling `GHAS` for `GHES`:
        - Enable GHAS for GHES:
            - Can be done using `GitHub UI` or `SSH`
            - Make sure:
                - License for GHES been upgraded to include GHAS
                - You reviewed prerequisites for the features you plan to enable. (Prerequisites for code scanning, secret scanning and Dependabot)
                - Enabling GitHub Advanced Security features on your Enterprise Server instance will cause user-facing services on GitHub Enterprise Server to restart. You should time this change carefully to minimize downtime for users.
            - Enabling using SSH:
                - SSH into your GitHub Enterprise Server instance.
                - Enable the GitHub Advanced Security features you want to implement in your instance:
                    - To enable code scanning, enter `ghe-config app.minio.enabled true` followed by `ghe-config app.code-scanning.enabled true`
                    - To enable secret scanning, enter `ghe-config app.secret-scanning.enabled true`
                    - To enable the dependency graph, enter `ghe-config app.dependency-graph.enabled true`
            - Enable using UI:
                - `Site adming` page > `Management Console` > `Security`
                - Under `Security`, select the features to enable:
                    - `Dependency graph`
                    - `Code scanning`
                    - `Secret scanning`
                - Click `Save Settings`
        - After Enabling GHAS, it will restart the instance. 
        - Now you should follow the same steps that described for `GHEC` to enable GHAS for all the repositories in your organization.


4. Determine who should get access to GitHub Advanced Security features in an organization and grant the correct permissions.
    - Managing access to security alerts:
        - `Code scanning alerts`: requires `write` permission on repository.
        - `Secret scanning alerts`: requires repository administrators and organization owners permissions.
        - `Dependabot alerts`: Repository administrators and organization owners permissions.
        - Repository administrators and organization owners can give `secret scanning` and `dependabot alert` access to users and teams with write permission on their repositories from the repository `Security and analysis` settings.
            - For `code scanning`: users with permissions are able to dismiss alerts that do not require any action, or delete alerts to clean up `code scanning` results.
            - For `secret scanning`: users with permissions are able to delete detected secrets, create new tokens and update code that uses the detected secrets, or dismiss alerts that do not require any action.
            - For `dependabot alerts`: users with permissions are able update vulnerable dependencies, or dismiss alerts that do not require any action.

5. Set security policies at the organization and repository levels.
    - To make sure everyone is using GHAS is to set up a security policy at the organization level.
    - Policies can be configured for all orhanizations owned by your account, or for individual organizations.
    - To configure the policy on a organization level:
        - `Policies` > `Advanced security`
        - Under `GitHub Advanced Security` select the drop-down menu and select a policy for the organizations owned by your enterprise:
            - Options are:
                - Allow for all organizations
                - Allow for selected organizations
                - Never allow
        - Disallowing Advanced Security for an organization prevents repository administrators from enabling Advanced Security features for additional repositories, but does not disable the features for repositories where the features are already enabled.
        - GitHub bills for Advanced Security on a per-committer basis when setting up a policy at the organization level.
    - Configure policies at the repository level:
        - add `SECURITY.md` file to the root, `docs` or `.github` folder of your repository.
        - When someone creates an issue, they will see a link to project's security policy.
        - After someone reports a security vulnerability in your project, you can use GitHub Security Advisories to disclose, fix, and publish information about the vulnerability.
        - To create a security policy:
            - `Security` > `Security policy`
            - Click `Start setup`
            - In the `SECURITY.md` file, add information about supported versions of your project and how to report a vulnerability.
            - Commit the change to the repository.


6. Use the Security Overview to monitor security alerts.
    - Security Overview is available in the `Security` tab.
    - `Organization level`: displays aggregate and repository-specific security information for repositories owned by your organization. You can also filter information per security feature.
    - `Team level`: Security Overview displays repository-specific security information for repositories that the team has admin privileges for.
    - `Repository level`: shows which security features are enabled for the repository and offers the option to configure any available security features not currently in use.
    - Security overview is usable for broad and specific analysis due to high level of interactivity and numerous filters.


7. Use the GitHub Advanced Security API endpoints to manage the GitHub Advanced Security features and alerts.
    - GitHub has different API's for it's Security features:
        - `Code scanning`: Code Scanning API
            - Retrieve and update code scanning alerts from a repository
            - Create automated reports for code scanning alerts in an organization
            - Upload analysis results generated using offline code scanning tools
        - `Secret scanning`: Repos API, Secret Scanning API
            - Enable or disable secret scanning for a repository
            - Retrieve and update secret scanning alerts from a private repository
        - `Dependancy review`: Repos API, GraphQL API
            - Enable and disable dependency alerts and the dependency graph for a repository
            - Enable and disable security fixes for a repository
            - View dependency information
    - To automate security workflows, set up a correct permissions for the `GITHUB_TOKEN` to make authenticated API calls.
    - `GITHUB_TOKEN` permissions can be modified in individual workflows using the `permissions` key.
     - When the permissions key is used, all unspecified permissions are set to no access, with the exception of the metadata scope, which always gets read access.

