1. Dependency graph:
    - By default, enabling this feature requires owner or admin role.


2. Dependabot alerts:
    - By default, only repository owners and administrators are able to receive and dismiss alerts.
    - Administrators and owners grant other teams and users with access to the repository, permissions to view and dismiss alerts. `Code security and analysis` > `Access to alerts`
    - Repository administrators and owners can set up Dependabot alerts for private repositories and for some GHES repositories. 
        - By enabling these features, GitHub get permission to perform `read-only` analysis of those specific repositories.
    - Only organization owner can enable the dependency graph and Dependabot alerts for all of the repositories at once.
    - Owner of GitHub Enterprise, who is also owner of the connected GitHub Cloud organization or enterprise account can enable the dependency graph and Dependabot alerts for GitHub Server instance.
    - By default, only repository owners and administrators are able to receive Dependabot alerts for their repositories.
        - Administrators and onwers can grant other teams and users with access to the repository, permission to view and dismiss Dependabot alerts


3. Secret Scanning:
    - Feature is available for all public repositories, and for private repositories owned by organizations with enabled GHAS license.
    - For public repositories it cannot be configured or turned off.
    - Must be enabled manually on private repositories
    - Administrators and organization onwers can give view access to security alerts to people or teams who have write access to the repository.
    - Mainly can be configured in `Settings` > `Security & analysis`
    - GitHub notifies the following users of secret scanning alerts on a repository:
        - Repository administrators
        - Organization owners
        - Authors of commits that trigger alerts


4. Code Scanning:
    - Requires write permissions to a repository to set up or configure code scanning
    - Can be controlled mainly in `security` tab of the repository
    - The CodeQL CLI is free to use on public repositories that are maintained on GitHub.com, and available to use on private repositories that are owned by customers with an Advanced Security license.


5. Security policies:
    - Using policies, administrator can set security policies individually at each level of control: repository, organization, or enterprise.
    - Administrator can grant owners access control or make enterprise-wide access restrictions.
    - The permissions adminstrator can grant to users on each level of control are:
        - `None`
        - `Read`
        - `Write`
        - `Admin`
    - This permissions can be granted:
        - For `organization`: `Settings` > `You organization`
        - For `enterprise`: `Your enterprise` > `Policies` > `Repository policies`
    - Only GitHub Enterprise administrators and organization owners can configure organization security settings.
    

6. Documentation
    - When administrator creates a new repository, he starts with creating certain default health files.
    - GitHub will use and display these default files for any repository owned by the account that does not have its own file of that type in any of the following places:
        - The root of the repository
        - The `.github` directory
        - The `docs` directory
    
7. Security Advisories
    - Administrators are responsible for publishing security advisories
    - Security advisories should be comprehensive and include:  
        - Product and version affected
        - Severity
        - Types of security weaknesses addressed by the project owners actions
        - Impact, status of patches, and workarounds
    

8. Scrub sensitive data from a repository
    - Administrators are responsibe for removing sensitive data from a repository or its history
    
9. Reporting and logging
    - Logs are available to organization owners