## Action versioning
There are different ways to reference for actions in the workflow. The recommended way by GitHub is to refer to a specific version of the action, rather than just the action itself. By referencing to a specific version, user is placing a safeguard from unexpected changes pushed to the action that could potentially break your workflow. Below is an example of several ways to reference a specific version of an action:

```yml
steps:    
  # Reference a specific commit
  - uses: actions/setup-node@c46424eee26de4078d34105d3de3cc4992202b1e
  # Reference the major version of a release
  - uses: actions/setup-node@v1
  # Reference a minor version of a release
  - uses: actions/setup-node@v1.2
  # Reference a branch
  - uses: actions/setup-node@main
```

## Matrix Strategy
- Matrix strategy lets users to use variables in a single job definition to automatically create multiple job runs, that are based on the combination of the variables. Fox example, matrix strategy can be used to test the code in multiple versions of a language or on miltiple operation systems.
- The example below shows how to use a matrix strategy to test a `test` job in multiple versions of `operation systems` and `Node.js`. The `steps` in this example will run once for each version of `Node.js` specified in the `matrix.node-version` array. The `matrix` variable is available in the `steps` as `${{ matrix.node-version }}`. Current example is also suitable for customizing workflow templates.
  ```yml
  name: Node.js CI

  on:
    push:
      branches: [ main ]
    pull_request:
      branches: [ main ]

  test:
    runs-on: ${{ matrix.os }}
    strategy:
      matrix:
        os: [ubuntu-lastest, windows-2016]
        node-version: [8.x, 10.x]
    steps:
    - uses: actions/checkout@v1
    - name: Use Node.js ${{ matrix.node-version }}
      uses: actions/setup-node@v1
      with:
        node-version: ${{ matrix.node-version }}
    - name: npm install, and test
      run: |
        npm install
        npm test
      env:
        CI: true
  ```

## Automation
- If developer want to run the workflow after a reviewer has approved the pull request, he/she can use the `pull_request_review` event.
- Another option is to add a label to the pull request like in example below:
  ```yml
  steps:
    - name: Label when approved
      uses: pullreminders/label-when-approved-action@main
      env:
        APPROVALS: "1"
        GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
        ADD_LABEL: "approved"
  ```
- The `env:` block is where you set the environment variables for this action. For example it can be the number of approvers needed.
- Notice the `GITHUB_TOKEN`. In order to do changes to the repository, the token must be provided with needed scope.
