## Default environment variables, Contexts and Custom variables
Within the GitHub Actions workflow, there are several default environment variables that are available for you to use, but only within the runner that's executing a job. It is recommended to use default environment variables to reference the filesystem rather than using hard-coded file paths. For using default environment variable specify `$` followed by variable name.

- The following environment variables are available by default in all workflows:
  - `GITHUB_WORKFLOW` - The name of the workflow.
  - `GITHUB_ACTION` - The unique identifier (ID) of the action.
  - `GITHUB_ACTOR` - The name of the person or app that initiated the workflow. For example, `octocat`.
  - `GITHUB_REPOSITORY` - The owner and repository name. For example, `octocat/Hello-World`.
  - `GITHUB_EVENT_NAME` - The name of the webhook event that triggered the workflow. For example, `push` or `pull_request`.
  - `GITHUB_EVENT_PATH` - The path of the file with the complete webhook event payload. For example, `/github/workflow/event.json`.
  - `GITHUB_WORKSPACE` - The GitHub workspace directory path. The workspace directory contains a subdirectory with a copy of your repository if your workflow uses the `actions/checkout` action. If you don't use the `actions/checkout` action, the directory will be empty. For example, `/home/runner/work/my-repo-name/my-repo-name`.
  - `GITHUB_SHA` - The commit SHA that triggered the workflow. For example, `ffac537e6cbbf934b08745a378932722df287a53`.
  - `GITHUB_REF` - The branch or tag ref that triggered the workflow. For example, `refs/heads/feature-branch-1`. If neither a branch or tag is available for the event type, the variable will not exist.
  - `GITHUB_HEAD_REF` - Only set for forked repositories. The branch of the head repository.
  - `GITHUB_BASE_REF` - Only set for forked repositories. The branch of the base repository.


In addition to default environment variables, you can use defined variables as contexts. Contexts and default variables are similar in that they both provide access to environment information, but they have some important differences. While default environment variables can only be used within the runner, context variables can be used at any point within the workflow. For example, context variables allow you to run an `if` statement to evaluate an expression before the runner is executed.

- The example below is using `github.ref` as a context variable:
  
  ```yml
  name: CI
  on: push
  jobs:
    prod-check:
      if: github.ref == 'refs/heads/main'
      runs-on: ubuntu-latest
      steps:
        - run: echo "Deploying to production server on branch $GITHUB_REF"
  ```

Custom evironment variables can be used in workflow. In order to create custom variable, user should define it in workflow file using the `env` context. I variable must be used inside a runner, it can use the runner operating system's normal method for reading environment variables.
- See an example below:

  ```yml
  name: CI
  on: push
  jobs:
    prod-check:
      if: github.ref == 'refs/heads/main'
      runs-on: ubuntu-latest
      steps:
        - run: echo "Nice work, $First_Name. Deploying to production server on branch $GITHUB_REF"
          env:
            First_Name: Mona
  ```