###     Scheduled events

- The `schedule` event allows developers to trigger a workflow to run at specific UTC times using POSIX cron syntax. The following example shows how to run a workflow every day at 15:00 UTC.

    ```yml
        name: A workflow for my Hello World file
        on:
          schedule:
            - cron:  '*/15 * * * *'
        jobs:
          build:
            name: Hello world action
            runs-on: ubuntu-latest
            steps:
            - uses: actions/checkout@v1
            - uses: ./action-a
              with:
                MY_NAME: "Mona"
    ```
    
    And workflow below runs on every Sunday at 3:00am:
    
    ```yml
        on:
          schedule:
            - cron:  '0 3 * * SUN'
    ```

###     Manual events

- Developer is able to manually trigger a workflow by using the `workflow_dispatch` event. This event allows developers to run the workflow using the GitHub REST API or by selecting the Run workflow button in the Actions tab within your repository on GitHub. Using `workflow_dispatch`, developer can choose on which branch he want the workflow to run, as well as set optional inputs that `GitHub` will present as form elements in the `UI`. The following example shows how to manually trigger a workflow by using the GitHub Actions tab in the repository.

    ```yml
        on:
          workflow_dispatch:
            inputs:
              logLevel:
                description: 'Log level'     
                required: true
                default: 'warning'
              tags:
                description: 'Test scenario tags'
    ```

- In addition to <b>`workflow_dispatch`</b>, developer can use the `GitHub API` to trigger a `webhook` event called <b>`repository_dispatch`</b>. This event allows developer to trigger a workflow for activity that occurs outside of GitHub, and essentially serves as an `HTTP` request to repository asking `GitHub` to `trigger` a `workflow` off an action or webhook. Using this manual event requires developer to do two things:

    -   send a POST request to the GitHub endpoint /repos/{owner}/{repo}/dispatches with the webhook event names in the request body 
    -   configure your workflow to use the repository_dispatch event.
    -   The following example shows how to manually trigger a workflow by using the GitHub API.
    ```yml
        on:
          repository_dispatch:
            types: [opened, deleted]
    ```
    ```bash
        curl \
            -X POST \
            -H "Accept: application/vnd.github.v3+json" \
            https://api.github.com/repos/octocat/hello-world/dispatches \
            -d '{"event_type":"event_type"}'
    ```

###     Workflow run using webhook events
- As said above, developers can configure a workflow to run when a specific event occurs on the GitHub. Most webhook events can be triggered from more than one activity for a webhook. Developers can specify an activity type to trigger the workflow. For example, developer can run a workflow for the <b>`check_run`</b> event, but only for the `rerequested` or `requested_action` activity types:
    ```yml
        on:
          check_run:
            types: [rerequested, requested_action]
    ```
