# 6. Using Cache and Artifacts
GitHub is providing two main ways to reuse dependencies between workflow: using `cache` or `artifacts`. `Caching` is a feature that allows you to persist files across workflow runs. It is useful for storing dependencies, build outputs, or other files that are generated during the workflow that users want to reuse in future runs. For example, it can be used to `cache` a `node_modules` directory in `Node.js` project to reduce the amount of time it takes to install dependencies during subsequent runs.

The main difference between `artifacts` and `caches` is that <b>artifacts</b> are `files` or `directories` that should be <b>persisted</b> after the workflow run has <b>completed</b>. They can be used to <b>share</b> files between different `jobs` in a <b>workflow</b>, or to <b>persist</b> files for later use, such as `downloading` and `storing` the build `artifacts` for <b>deployment</b>. Unlike `cache`, by default artifacts are stored and `accessible` for <b>90</b> days after a workflow run has completed. That means, that the main difference between `caching` and `artifacts` is that <b>caching</b> is used to `persist` files <b>`during`</b> the workflow run, while <b>artifacts</b> are used to persist files <b>`after`</b> the workflow run has completed. `Caching` is more focused on <b>improving performance</b>, while `artifacts` are more focused on <b>sharing files between jobs and workflows</b>.

</br>

# Using Cache
In order to cache dependencies for a job, user will need to use GitHub's `cache` action. This action retrieves a cache identified by a unique key that user provide. After action successfully finds the cache, it retrieves the cached files to the path that user configure. In order to use the cache, user must set a few specific parameters:

|<b>`Parameter`</b>|<b>`Description`</b>|<b>`Required`</b>|
|-|-|-|
|`Key`|Refers to the key identifier created when saving and searching for a cache.| <b>Yes</b>|
|`Path`|Refers to the file path on the runner to cache or search.|<b>Yes</b>|
|`Restore-keys`|Consists of alternative existing keys to caches if the desired cache key is not found.|<b>No</b>|

```yml

steps:
  - uses: actions/checkout@v2

  - name: Cache NPM dependencies
    uses: actions/cache@v2
    with:
      path: ~/.npm
      key: ${{ runner.os }}-npm-cache-${{ hashFiles('**/package-lock.json') }}
      restore-keys: |
        ${{ runner.os }}-npm-cache-
```
In the preceding example, the path is set to ~/.npm and the key includes the runner's operating system and the SHA-256 hash of the package-lock.json file. Prefixing the key with an ID (npm-cache in this example) is useful when you are using the restore-keys fallback and have multiple caches.

</br>

# Using Artifacts
- When a workflow produces something other than a log entry, it's called an artifact. For example, the Node.js build will produce a Docker container that can be deployed. 
- This artifact can be: 
    - uploaded to storage by using the action `actions/upload-artifact` 
    - downloaded from storage by using the action `actions/download-artifact`
- Storing an artifact helps to preserve it between jobs. 
- Each job uses a fresh instance of a VM. Developers can't reuse the artifact by saving it on the VM.
- In order to use artifacts, developer should upload the artifact storate in one job and download it for the other job.
- The following example shows how to upload an artifact to storage by using the `actions/upload-artifact` action:
  ```yml
  name: Upload Artifact
  on: push
  jobs:
    build:
      runs-on: ubuntu-latest
      steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - name: Upload Artifact
        uses: actions/upload-artifact@v2
        with:
          name: my-artifact
          path: ./path/to/file
  ```
- The following example shows how to download an artifact from storage by using the `actions/download-artifact` action:
  ```yml
  name: Download Artifact
  on: push
  jobs:
    build:
      runs-on: ubuntu-latest
      steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - name: Download Artifact
        uses: actions/download-artifact@v2
        with:
          name: my-artifact
  ```
## Artifact storage
- Artifacts are stored in storage space on GitHub. The space is `free` for public repositories and some amount is free for private repos, depending on the account. GitHub stores artifacts for `90 days`.
- In `ationcs/upload-artifact@main` is a `path:` attribute. This is the path to store the artifact. If the path is a directory, the entire directory is stored as an artifact. If the path is a file, only that file is stored as an artifact. Workflow example:
  ```yml
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v1
      - name: npm install and build webpack
        run: |
          npm install
          npm run build
      - uses: actions/upload-artifact@main
        with:
          name: webpack artifacts
          path: public/
  ```
- To download the artifact for testing, the build must have completed successfully and uploaded the artifact. 
- Following code specify that the test job depends on the build job:
  ```yml
  test:
    needs: build
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
  ```
- Following snippet downloads the artifact and stores it in the `public` directory:
  ```yml
  steps:
    - uses: actions/checkout@v1
    - uses: actions/download-artifact@v2
      with:
        name: webpack artifacts
        path: public/
  ```


## Passing artifact between jobs
Similar to the idea of caching dependencies, it is possible to pass data between jobs within the same workflow using cache. User can achieve it by using `actions/upload-artifact` and `actions/download-artifact` actions. Jobs that are dependent on ap previous job's artifacts must wait for the dependent job to complete successfuööy before they can run. This is useful if developer have a series of jovs that need to run sequentially on artifacts uploaded from a previous job. In the following example job_2 requires job_1 by using `needs: job_1` syntax. `job_1` creates a file.txt and uploads it as an artifact. `job_2` downloads the artifact and prints the contents of the file.txt to the console:

```yml
name: Share data between jobs
on: push
jobs:
  job_1:
    name: Upload File
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - run: echo "Hello World" > file.txt
      - uses: actions/upload-artifact@v2
        with:
          name: file
          path: file.txt

  job_2:
    name: Download File
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    needs: job_1
    steps:
      - uses: actions/download-artifact@v2
        with:
          name: file
      - run: cat file.txt
```

