## Debug logging in a workflow

Default workflow logs might not provide enough detail to diagnose the reason of specific workflow run failure. In order to get more debug logging user must enable additional logging for two options: `runs` and `steps`. User can enable additional logging by setting some repository secrets that require `admin` access to the repository to `true`. Below are the two options:
- enable runner diagnostic logging: set `ACTIONS_RUNNER_DEBUG` secret in the repository that contains the workflow to `true`
- enable step debug logging: set `ACTIONS_STEP_DEBUG` secret in the repository that contains the workflow to `true`

## Access the workflow logs from the user interface

Debugging process can be frustration, however GitHub provides a clear way to navigate between the jobs while keeping the context of the currently debugging step. To review the logs, follow the steps below:

1.  Navigate to the `Actions` tab in your repository.
2.  In the left sidebar, click the desired workflow.
3.  From the list of workflow runs, select the desired run.
4.  Under `Jobs`, select the desired job.
5.  Read the log output.

There is also an option to set change of the `Status` filter. For example after choosing the workflow and setting it to `Failure`, it will only display the failed runs within that workflow.

## Access the workflow logs from the REST API

In order to access the workflow logs from the REST API, user must use the `GET /repos/{owner}/{repo}/actions/runs/{run_id}/logs` endpoint. This endpoint will return the logs for a specific workflow run. Anyone with read access to the repository can use this endpoint. If the repository is private, access token with the `repo` scope is required.


## Workflow commands
Workflow commands can add another level of customization for the workflow. Workflow commands enables communication with the GitHub Actions runner machine by printing formatted lines of text to the console. These workflow commands can be used with shell commands or within custom actions. These commands are useful to share information between steps, pring debug or error messages to the console, set environment variables, set output parameters or add to the system path.
Most workflow commands use the `echo` command in the below specific format, while other can be invoked by writing to a file.


```bash
    echo "::workflow-command parameter1={data},parameter2={data}::{command value}"
```

-    The basic logging examples for printing a debug, info, error, or warning message to the console:


    ```yml
        - name: workflow commands logging messages
          run: |
            echo "::debug::This is a debug message"
            echo "This is an info message"
            echo "::error::This is an error message"
            echo "::warning::This is a warning message"
    ```

-   It is also possible to create a message to print to the console with a filename (file), line number (line), and column number (col). This is useful for printing error messages from a linter or compiler:
    
    ```bash
        echo "::error file=app.js,line=10,col=15::Something went wrong"
    ```
    
-   It's important to note that these workflow commands need to be on a single line. Characters that interfere with parsing such as commas and line breaks will need to be URL-encoded. For example, the following multi-line message:
    
    ```yml
    This text spans
    across multiple lines
    ```

-    Should be encoded as shown below:
    
    ```yml
    This text spans%0Aacross multiple lines
    ```

-    In addition to workflow commands, there is a possibility yo set exit codes to set the status of an action. This is important, because it allows to exit from a failed job with a code, halt all concurrent actions and cabcek any future actions. With JavaScript actions, there is a toolkit called `@actions/core` to log a message and set a failure exit code. For Docker container, developer should set a failure message and exit code in the `entrypoint.sh` file. For example:
    
    ```bash
    echo "::error::Something went wrong!"
    exit 1
    ```