# GitHub Package Registries


GitHub Packages is a package-managemenet service that simplifies the process of publishing and consuming packages. GitHub Packages allow users to use, share or find public or private project dependencies within their organization or repositories.

GitHub Packages is compatible with common package-management clients. GitHub Packages supports following package-management clients:

-   npm
-   NuGet
-   Maven and Gradle
-   RubyGems

Github Packages is also a container registry. It allows users to store, manage, and deploy container images. It is compatible with Docker and Kubernetes. Once image is published (in public or in private), it allows to use these images from anywhere, including:

- Local development environment
- As a base image from GitHub Codespaces development environment
- As a step to execute into CI/CD workflow with GitHub Actions
- On a server or a cloud service

## GitHub Packages vs GitHub Releases
GitHub Packages are used to publish release of libraries to a standard package feed or a container registry. They are meant to leverage the ways the specific package-management client works with that feed, like linking back to the repository in which the package was created as well as the version of the code that was used.

GitHub Releases are used to release a bundle of packaged software, along with the release notes and links to binary files. Those releases can be directly downloaded from their unique URL and tracked back to specific commit they were created from. Users can download the release as tarball or zip file.

For example if user using both: JavaScript (npm) and Java (Maven) in project, user should maintain three different sets of user permissions: Git, npm and Maven. Using GitHub Packages, user can manage all of those permissions in one place across source-code repository, private npm repository and Maven or Grandle private repository. Packages published through GitHub inherit the visibility and permissions assigned at the repository level. A new team member needs read access to a package and its code? Give them read access to the repository and it's done!


## Workflow to publish to GitHub Packages
By combining GitHub Actions and GitHub Packages, developer can build workfllow that will build, test and publish it to GitHub Packages by simply pushing code to the repository.

```yml
name: Node.js Package

on:
  release:
    types: [created]

jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - uses: actions/setup-node@v1
        with:
          node-version: 12
      - run: npm ci
      - run: npm test

  publish-gpr:
    needs: build
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - uses: actions/setup-node@v1
        with:
          node-version: 12
          registry-url: https://npm.pkg.github.com/
      - run: npm ci
      - run: npm publish
        env:
          NODE_AUTH_TOKEN: ${{secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN}}
```

The workflow above exists in the `.github/workflows` directory. The common naming practice for this action is `release-package.yml`.

## GitHub Container Registry to host and manage Docker container images
As been mentioned, GitHub Packages support the use of containers, Kubernetes and other cloud-native technologies to manage their entire application lifecycle including production operations, development, release, and deployment.
With container registry users can:

- Store container images within organization and user account rather than a repository.
- Set fine-grained permissions for the container images.
- Access public container images anonymously.

In order to do so user needs to:

1. Build the image
2. Authenticate and sign in to the GitHub Container Registry service called `ghcr.io`
3. Tag the image 
4. Push the latest version of the container registry using following commands:
    ```bash
    echo $GITHUB_TOKEN | docker login ghcr.io -u USERNAME --password-stdin
    docker tag IMAGE_ID ghcr.io/OWNER/IMAGE_NAME:latest
    docker push ghcr.io/OWNER/IMAGE_NAME:latest
    ```

