# GitHub Packages for code packages
The way to authenticate into package manager will depend on project's ecosystem. There are only three pieces of information needed:

- Personal GitHub username
- A Personal Access Token (PAT)
- The GitHub Packages endpoint for package ecosystem

PAT can be generated in users profile settings.

## Log in to GitHub Packages
- In order to publish or install from GitHub Packages, authentication is required. The endpoint for GitHub Packages is `https://PACKAGE_TYPE.pkg.github.com/OWNER/REPOSITORY`, where `PACKAGE_TYPE` is the type of package ecosystem username is using. The following table shows the commands to run in order to authenticate to GitHub Packages for each package ecosystem:

| Package Ecosystem | Command |
| ----------------- | ------- |
| NuGet | dotnet nuget add source https://nuget.pkg.github.com/OWNER/index.json -n github -u OWNER -p [Your PAT Token] |
| npm | bash npm login --registry=https://npm.pkg.github.com |
| RubyGems | echo ":github: Bearer GH_TOKEN" >> ~/.gem/credentials |
| Maven & Grandle | Can be directly authenticated while pushing |

[More information about GitHub Packages](https://docs.github.com/en/packages/working-with-a-github-packages-registry)

When user is authenticated, he/she can easily use published packages in own projects. Each package home page shows the command to run, depending on project environment.

## Managing packages

- GitHub Packages offer several ways to manage packages lifecycle and workflows. GitHub Packages can be managed through the GitHub API and the GraphQL API. APIs allows to support advanced integrations scenarios. 

- For example GitHub's Webhook feature allows to run code when a new package is published. With webhooks allows to automatically publish a new Tweet or a blog post when a new package is published.

- GitHub Actions can be used to automate package management. For example `delete-package-versions` action can automatically prune the oldest version of packages while publishing a new version.