# Publish a custom GitHub action

## Choose a location and visibility for the action
- When creating an action, decide on its visibility: `public` or `private` and where it will be hosted. 
- Public actions need their own repository for:
    1. `versioning`
    2.  `tracking` 
    3. `discoverability` 
- Private actions can be stored in any location in the same repository. 
- Regardless of visibility, it's a good practice to include well done documentation as a `README.md` file, covering the action's: 
    1. `description`
    2. `required` & `optional` 
    3. `input` & `output` arguments 
    4. `secrets` 
    5. `environment variables` used 
    6. an example of how to use it. 
- The `README.md` should provide all the information a user needs to use the action.

<br>

## Versioning and release practice

- When developing an action, it's important to define a `release management strategy`, including `versioning` recommendations to control how updates are distributed. Major version updates including necessary critical fixes, changes and security patches that affect compatibility needs to be documented clearly. Good release managemend strategy should include versioning recommendations. User should bot be referencing an action's default branch with the action as the default branch which is likely to contain the latest code (which may be unstable) and could result broken workflow. 

- Tags are a good option, user can call an action with adding these to the end of the action: 
    1. `major version`
    2. `patch version`
    3. Target a `tag`, 
    4. `commit SHA`, or specific `branch` name for a release when using the action.

    ```yml
    steps:
        - uses: actions/javascript-action@v1
        - uses: actions/javascript-action@v1.0.1
        - uses: actions/javascript-action@v1-beta
        - uses: actions/javascript-action@2522385f6f7ba04fe7327647b213799853a8f55c
    ```

- To effectively manage the releases and versions of software, it is recommended to create a `separate` <b>branch</b> for `releases` and <b>test</b> the `release` on that <b>branch</b> <u>before creating a release tag</u>. 


## Publishing to GitHub Marketplace

- In order to share an action with the GitHub community, it can be published to the GitHub Marketplace and reached out to millions of GitHub users.
- Actions published to the GitHub Marketplace are published immediately if all of the requirements are met. Actions that do not meet the requirements will need to be reviewed by GitHub before being published.
- The repository for the action should only include the `metadata` file, `code`, and `files` necessary for the action. This makes it easier to `tag`, `release`, and `package` the code in a single unit.
- The action must be in a public repository and must contain a single action.
- The action's `metadata` file (action.yml) must be in the root directory of the repository and the name in the `metadata` file must be unique on the GitHub Marketplace.
- The name cannot match a user or organization on GitHub, unless the user or organization owner is publishing the action. The name also cannot match an existing GitHub Marketplace category or feature.

- Action can be added to GitHub Marketplace by tagging it as a new release and then publishing it. GitHub provides guided steps to help with publishing the release.